Player Progression:
Okay, this document is going to be two things. First and foremost, a rambling of my thoughts on how the progression from the Neolithic through the medieval should play out in this game. And secondly, a smattering of actual research nodes, game concepts, buildings, etc. from the game. While I'm writing this, I have the game open and my mods folder open, and I am assessing everything and looking through what I would actually like the game to consist of. Let's begin. 


First things first, the Vanilla Factions Expanded Tribals Mod gives the perfect start to a game like this. You haven't even discovered fire, or maybe you've only discovered fire and the Archon Gods come down and bless your colonists. How cool. Then you work through the tribal technology tree, figuring out basic agriculture, basic medicine, basic furniture. That is the very beginning intro that I'd like, and let's be honest, you discover these things over the first in-game days. It doesn't take you months of in-game time to figure out how to smash a rock, you know? So that progression feels good, and I like the way it unlocks the jobs. It enables growth of jobs and gizmos, and some of the very base facilities that go with it. So when you unlock agriculture, you figure out how to grow crops. You gain the grow job, you gain all the grow gizmos, and you gain a bunch of the base plants. And I think that's awesome. And then you have advanced agriculture, or cultivation it's called, and that teaches you more plants, which is also awesome. I think that progression system is great through the Neolithic era. Going into the Medieval Overhaul mod plus vanilla Rimworld and some of the other mods I have that introduces something called basic agriculture, which starts in the Neolithic era and gives me wheat, mushrooms, millstones, gardening boxes, Astragalus, garlic plants. Some of those plants might be cool, but I like the way that the Tribals mod handles this so much more. By doing the research for the thing, you unlock the skill itself, then you learn a few of the plants, and then you learn greater cultivation levels and unlock more of the plants. That's a good system to me, but the intermediate agriculture into the advanced agriculture and the plowed soil is a nice progression system for the plants you can grow in the Medieval Overhaul. But at the end of the day, I think it's too many plants. I don't need 40 different plant types that I can grow for all the different recipes. I'm okay taking the vanilla set and expanding that some. We'll have to do a pass on what that looks like, but I don't need 100 different types of plants. Plowed soil is cool, but again, it's a work thing and it was buggy last time I played it. So I don't know if we necessarily want to use that. I think I would rather lean on some of the obvious augmenting items from vanilla expanded set, like the scarecrow and sprinkler. If we want to make our own or repurpose an object to fill that role, that sounds better to me. So you put up a scarecrow in a field, it increases the rate at which your crops grow, or does, you know, give some bonus to the agriculture itself rather than having to plow the soil. Now plowing the soil is great for areas where the soil isn't perfect. I do like the mechanic, but again it didn't work super well from the medieval overhaul mod when I tried it. 

Let's talk about the tribal mod for a second. The initial research projects which unlock the skills are awesome. Love the idea. Doesn't take very long, but it really gets you into the immersive feeling that you have a bunch of fucking cavemen essentially that are just figuring shit out for the first time. And the way that they do that with the ritual spot and everyone coming together for a tribal gathering to conduct research is cool. I also like the tech advancing system where you advance through the tech levels and you get cornerstone points. That's cool. What I don't care for and what I don't want is to be doing any tribal gatherings after those first research points. So once I've done all of the initial technology and I've unlocked all the jobs and all the gizmos and all this stuff, then I pretty much want to go back to the normal Rimworld route where you have the research bench and a researcher. And I already have the More Research Requirements mod, so research is already being expanded very intentionally to include specific items and material costs that you have to meet to learn how to do something. That's great. Love that. I don't really think we need much else there. But if it's possible, I love the idea of doing the gatherings for the initial technologies in the tribal mod. If it's not possible, that's not the end of the world either. We'll just have to assess that. What I would like to keep is the cornerstone system, and I'm using Tech Block, so I already have a technology that I have to research in order to tech up to the next tier, and that can be the trigger for getting a cornerstone. So I'd like to keep that mechanic throughout the game. I think that's very cool. Now the tribals mod basically gives you the start, so maybe it's the first twenty to thirty days of the game. You unlock all the initial technologies. You unlock on the jobs and the tissues. Some tribal where you run around your map, you slaughter some animals for food because you have nothing else. You cook it over the fire to make some super basic food. You don't have much, right? Then you learn how to farm. You start putting some stuff down. You slowly learn some of the different, very, very basic parts of the game. And I would probably even pair these down. Some, for example, in the furniture and the agriculture research, is you're gaining some things that you might not necessarily need access to. Strawberry plants, toka potato plants, wheat. I don't know if we need all of those in the initial agriculture. This is where I'm leaning a little bit more of the medieval overhaul route where you tier up agriculture from basic to intermediate to advanced, and those unlock more plant types for you to grow and use. But again, I don't need a ton of types. We can gate the vanilla ones as well as the ones we choose from the mods we have behind those tiers. I think that's a good progression. And what I'd really like to see there is that by the end of the Neolithic era, you can grow a decent variety of plants that get you a bunch of basic foods. Now foods is a big one. The Medieval Overhaul mod adds basic cooking and it's a system that's a little too involved for my taste. It also expands into smoking, grilling, intermediate cooking, stews, and baking, each with their own production buildings and time involved and ingredients involved. I'll be honest, when I played this mod, I never gave a shit. I never cared enough to dig into what every recipe takes, perfectly optimizing my farms and my animals to get the exact thing for four different production buildings so that I could get the food I wanted. I found the simplest, easiest, and cheapest food option that satisfied my colonists, and I never made anything else. And the reason for that wasn't because cooking is boring and sucks and it's not fun in this game. It was because there was way too much. There's thirty different types of plants, forty different recipes that require five, six, seven different ingredients that I have to figure out. It's too much micromanaging for me to care. So the better way to handle this is using that base production station plus augment station mentality. So you get your basic cooking station in the Neolithic era, whatever it is, right? It's a clay oven, whatever. What are the mods we pick that make the most thematic sense for Neolithic era? That cooking station gives you access to basic recipes using the basic agriculture crops that you're given. Then when you research intermediate agriculture or intermediate cooking, you get the augment cooking station that enables your oven to be better with the plants and recipes that go along with it. So whether that's one research node or two, those are some semantics we can look at and a little bit of balancing there, but that's the idea of the progression. I go from using this basic cooking station to cook a few simple recipes to expanding my number of recipes using the same exact cooking station and crops. So I have a few more crop options, a few recipe options. I'm using the same cooking station but I've expanded it's capability using an augmenting station. That logic holds to an extent. I'm not saying we never have additional cooking stations, for example a mill to turn wheat into flour. It's kind of cool, it's something to do. Is it necessary? Don't quite know. An oven for baking bread? No, that's straight out. I don't want to have different production buildings just to make food. Production buildings changing the ingredients of food, I can see. So the flour mill and the cheese press both could be some good options. I'm going to keep making my good food, and I am in the space era. I don't want to have a windmill on my spaceship. 

The other thought process here is that food should play a really big role if you're gonna go through all of this trouble. Then food should be a big deal, and my thoughts here are recipes might take three, maybe four things that you have to surface, or what you have to have, but keeping the complexity linear is a good way to go about this. So here's what I mean. In the beginning of the game, you can make dried meat. Any meat you have, you dry it out, you get dried meat. And this is just an example, not saying that this is a legitimate cooking item, but you get dried meat. The next tier of recipe is dried meat plus one additional ingredient, and that takes your dried meat and it makes it a little bit better. And the next tier of recipe is meat plus vegetables, and you make a stew. And this dude gives you a decent leg up, and it requires any two vegetables and anyone meat to make a stew. I'm already growing a bunch of crops. I don't have to pay attention to the exact types of crops I'm growing. I don't need to have specifically corn and potatoes to make the stew. It's any two vegetable crops plus a meat. Then the next tier of recipe goes up to a meat plus two vegetables plus eggs. Now I have to have chickens. So I've expanded the surface of what I have to manage into crops and animals. And the ingredients I get from the animals plus the crops can make me better recipes. But I don't have to process additional materials in a specific way in order to get it. And the final tier might be I have to mill flour. Right, I have to turn wheat into flour, so that's one additional processing step to get the ingredient, or I have to turn milk into cheese, and that's an. The most complicated recipes might take a meat plus a vegetable plus a cheese plus flour, and that would be the most complicated that it gets. And all I have to do is have those systems running, and then I can queue the recipe. I do not have to pay attention to the exact specific crops, and I do not need to have three or four different production buildings that I am managing just to make the thing. I don't have a grill and an oven and a brick oven and a bread oven and stove. Right, I have my cooking station where I cook stuff, and then I can augment that with additional things. This could even be as simple as you have your cooking production station. One of the augments is the brick oven. That. My main complaint here is switching between production buildings. Rimworld forces you to manage all of your production with different cards, and simply figuring that out through five different production buildings sucks. So it's perfectly fine if my pawn runs over to my cooking setup where I have my stove, and it's the same stove I've had since the beginning of the Neolithic era, and it now has augments for bread ovens and cheese presses, and that brings in the argument of, well, now you can't parallelize your work, which is okay. You don't typically have a bunch of cooking ponds anyway. And if some things like a cheese press might be a bad example because you might want that to be its own production building. You put the cheese in it. You leave it in there. It ages for a long time. I understand that, so maybe not a great example, but you can see the theme I'm going for here and how I want to solve the problem that mods like Vanilla Cooking Expanded and Medieval Overhaul introduce. So to be specific in the Medieval Overhaul and the Vanilla Cooking Expanded Mods I have the basic stove the smoker The grill. The cheese press. The stoop pot and the large oven and then In the future, I have a rustic oven Better grills Bigger pots All cooking stations We need to determine the minimal set of those necessary to still give us the recipe options that we'd actually want. I also think there's maybe too many recipe options, but doesn't need to be an absolute Hun, 2-3 from each category is perfectly fine. And those recipes that I do work for should give me significant bonuses over just normal food. Additional situation. And bonuses as well to you know work speed stuff like that I really like the way power world does food actually and their farming system is great you make all recipes and one oven depending on what crops you have determines which recipes you could make ingredients are the better the food is on a scaling tier of benefits so there's some food that just gives you satiety, there's other food that gives you work speed Food that gives you defense and other food that gives offense. The scale of that buff depends on the quality of the ingredients and you simply ramp that up over time. So in the beginning of the game, the best food I can make is food that gives me a 10% work speed buff or a 10 percent combat. Buff and then late game I can make something that gives me a 30% buff to each of those. And it just requires more advanced ingredients than I unlock through the tech tree. In the normal game would be the Griffin Berries So when you unlock Griffin Beries in the medieval overhaul mod You can now make Griffin Berry pies and food that's really great using Griffin Berrys That Arc and narrative is really good, but the number of production buildings crops and ingredients you have to manage is not Another note here is adding a bunch of ingredients to the game like salt and saffron and all these other ingredients Any time you add anything to the game, you dilute the pool of vanilla resources in a way that is bad. Particularly if those ingredients really only matter during a specific era. So if I no longer I give a shit about salt. Once I'm in the spacer era and everyone's eating nutrient paste, but every time I go to a vendor one of the slots is wasted with salt Or I'm getting quest rewards and one of them's salt And I don't give a shit about salt ever again after that point in the game That's the sign it is a bad resource edition So we can look through all of our mods we have here and assess which are the resources that would genuinely add to the game over the lifetime of the game and continue to evolve their use case with you as you move through the different tech eras. And what are the ones that are just neat flavor that the mod authors added in that don't serve our purpose here? That's a good way of looking at it. 

Now let's move on to some of the more structural changes over the neolithic into the medieval era I like the addition of candle making and that it's a neolithic theory so how do you get light in the new lithic era you gotta figure out how to make candles right you can make basic candles in the more advanced candles. Back in the day they used to just take reeds of grass and put them in tallow and light them on fire Burned him for four or five hours, and that was your candles. You know I think that some of the furniture stuff is interesting like basic woodworking you get some stuff there that may be a little too advanced for my taste So we just kind of need to rework what that table looks like but I think the progression for furniture is one of the best established in all of the Mods in the base game that we have here It just makes a lot of sense When you're in the Neanderthal stage, you're making weird-looking Neanderthal shit Then as you progress to the later part of that stage, you start to make things that are a little bit more advanced. You get into the medieval era and now you're able to make some of the rustic furniture. That's coming out with this and your craftsmanship is getting better and by the time you're in the late medieval era, you're making like Sistine Chapel type of shit right really advanced really nice looking architecture in general stuff, but none of it's using advanced technology. It's just ornate marble columns and that type of stuff Which is awesome And a great thing for that part of the game, and I love the narrative here in the story that naturally I built a colony and I make a badass looking throne room And I've still got that throne room when I'm flying through space So I don't just ditch that. I'm keeping some of the flavor that I Naturally evolved into over the course of the game as I progress so like I'm replacing every piece of furniture and decoration in my Entire colony every time I tech up So you are going to have some holdovers from the previous eras which looks cool, and shows that you've played through and progressed through all of the different eras of the game. I think that's awesome. So furniture is one of the simplest ones. It's already very well divided. We just maybe need to do a balancing pass over that to make sure that you don't get access to anything obviously bad for the stage of the game you would be in. Another note is to basically completely remove the woodworking mechanics that come from Medieval Overhaul. I don't ever give a shit or want to process wood into planks and planks into boards and whatever else it wants me to do. I don't care. I take wood, I use wood. End of story. The construction cost of using the wood in the thing is the roleplay of converting it into whatever shape the wood needs to be. I don't care for timber or planks or boards or any of the other language that's used in these mods to try and force you to do something with the wood that you're getting. That's another point. You can keep the surface in that the furniture you're able to make expands over time and with research and your actual artisanal abilities as your colonies progressing, but the complexity stays linear. It does not become, "Well, now you're in this new tier and there's another process you have to do with this wood, and then another process you have to deal with this one, and then another process with that one." Those are examples of a very poor mechanic because what happens when you get to the Industrial or the Spacer era? Am I still processing wood? Do I have to have some super hyper-advanced Spacer material bench to process wood at the speed of light? Like, what are we talking about? 

A quick note and thought here on some of the cool additional mechanics that are optional. So things like beekeeping, winemaking, brewing—I'm all for these. They're opt-in, not required. They are cool. I still want to keep them simple, but I like the way that these mods handled them almost out of the box. Beer brewing is cool. You get a brewery bench, ale work, fermenting barrels. It might be too complicated. I want to scale that back some, but I think if you want to opt into that system, it's because you like the role play of it, and that's a good thing to opt in to. One thing I don't care about at all in the medieval overhaul mod is paper. The paper press, creating paper, using paper, making paper, making maps, cartography—that entire system is shit. Don't like it whatsoever. Contrarily, one that is super cool is the carrier birds. How are you going to talk to other civilizations if you don't have these? I think that's awesome. I think it should be in the Neolithic era. You start learning how to train birds, same time you're really working with a lot of animals. You don't need to have anything specific to it though, like making paper in the messenger table and handling all the resources of that. Again, keep the surface, reduce the complexity. I do the research, I build a bird post, congratulations, I can talk to other people. I still have to have birds! You know, somebody on my colony still has to be taking care of a couple birds. The bird post requires birds of any kind, and then I can send messages and it just unlocks the whole mechanic. Cool surface, cool research, cool roleplay, doesn't add complexity. 

Continuing on the same thing into apparel and weaponry. Medieval overhaul does some things I'm on the fence about here. The way that it handles armor is pretty good. You unlock stone cutting, you start learning to work with tools, then you unlock smithing. I like that. You get an anvil and a bellows and things like that, which I think you should have to continue to research over time. You should just get all of them in the one smithing node. I think that should be broken up a little bit more. But also there's a few too many benches. So when you unlock smithing, you unlock the anvil, the bellows, the fueled smelter, the field smithy, and the furnace and the grind wheel all at the same time. What am I doing with all of that? That's just too much. So again, we want to reduce the complexity of that but keep the progression. So when I unlock it, I understand how to make super basic stuff. Then I do research to unlock the anvil and it teaches me to make a little better stuff. Then I do some research to unlock the bellows and I get a little bit of stuff. Then I do research to unlock the furnace. The furnace is just an augment to the smithy. I don't actually have to manage it. That makes sense. There's no mechanic in the vanilla game where I'm converting steel into any type of ingots or anything like that, and I think that's a good thing. Same thing with wood. I don't want to convert wood to something to use it. You're just adding complexity that doesn't add any narrative or benefit to the game. The narrative comes from having to do the things I have to research. The furnace after I place the furnace, but it just enhances my smithy and I just keep using the smithy. All the narrative, none of the complexity. 

When it comes to armor Textiles this is where it gets a little rough So these mods have you starting with a hand tailor bench. Great, very good. It unlocks a shit ton of tailorable items the second you unlock the Taylor bench. Those should probably be spread out a little bit and we should be using again, the augmenting building and the other two gates to get those additional unlocks. I love that system. But then we get into Textile spinning and now we have a spinning wheel and cloth and linen which is a new resource And then we have silk and silk beds to produce silk in ways to Binsilk and we're back to shit tons of complexity for no reason Tailoring is its own branch. So we have tailoring which leads to protective clothing, which leads the chain armor and plate armor I'm not sure how he gets a chain armor in playdighter armor from tailoring I think those should be gated on smithing and tailoring. You need both, you need to work with metal and the cloth in order to do that. I think we completely ditched the textile spinning and silk. Just tailoring absorbs all of that. If you have a tailoring bench, you can do all those things. Lening wheel becomes an augment to the tailoring bench, which allows you to use cloth in different ways. Linen is straight out it's a resource I don't want serves no purpose. Silk can also just be a upgrade from cloth. The silk beds is honestly not a bad idea, it's a new production thing you don't really have to do anything with You just set it down and your colonists take care of it So I'm not I'm not entirely against silk, but I am against having to spin silk and cloth into linen and the actual usable silk items. Don't want to do that at all. Then the tailoring bench Level up overtime gets those augmented stations and the types of clothing and things you can make increase So you have protective clothing? And some of the tailoring items that you get at default now spaced out behind those augment benches. Smithing Buildables that go alongside it and that enables you to over time make better weapons from basic weapons to military weapons to noble weapons chain armor and plate armor both rely on tailoring as well The armors are dependent on both tailoring and smithing. Basic clothing only depends on tailoring, so that's apparel And then weapons only depend on smithing So I think thats a pretty good breakdown in system., you can kind of think through what exactly that would look like but I like that a lot more and then the bigger unlocks, this is important, The bigger unlocks in the game become the upgrade to the base table. So you're using a... Very primitive version of a tailoring bench, right? You're using a hand tailor bench. You upgrade that to the electric tailor bench when you get to the industrial age or you upgrade that To the Foot-Peddle powered tailoring bench in the medieval era, you know or whatever Maybe you only get the tailoring bench in the medieval era before that You're just using a tailoring spot where somebody's just messing with hides or something. I don't know But little off track there, sorry When you upgrade the tailoring bench to a powered tailoring bench. You can still keep the augmenting buildings. You can kill it and still keep spinning wheel. You can still keep the other things of the tailoring tool buildings and the other augmentors. It just applies to the upgraded bench itself. So the core bench is the thing that stays consistent in upgrades throughout the game, and you can get to a powered one. And then late game, if there's mods for that or we have anything, you can get the like Ultra Tech version of that, you know. Some production buildings legitimately don't improve past a certain point, and that's okay. A tailoring bench is a tailoring bench, you know, whether you're flying through space or not. There's not many other ways you can sew clothing, so once you have electric tailoring bench, not much past that. And that's okay. But you see what I mean? How keeping the base station, and you can upgrade the base itself, but the augments stay throughout the game, is just a better system here. It reduces the complexity of having a whole bunch of production buildings while still allowing us to gate the progression of items on the augmented buildings themselves. So I really like that. 

Finally, I'll come down to the augmentors and the improvements that come in these mods of mineshaft in a medieval crane. The water mill automates the process of milling into flour. Windmill does the same thing. Some of the later stuff I would want to remove, like Mithril. Mithril has no place in the game. In my opinion, it's a strictly medieval-flavored item that if I was going to cap my playthrough at the medieval era, which is kind of what medieval overhaul is generally designed for, would be cool. It becomes my new endgame. But I don't want it because I'm moving to the industrial era anyway. I'm gonna start using power armor and stuff like that, and that takes precedent over Mithril. But these later items that make earlier tasks obsolete or massively improved are good QoL, so long as they aren't adding another thing for me to manage. Mine shaft? Awesome. Makes total narrative sense, give me the ability to mine early (if inneficiently) and I don't have to manage it once it's placed. Great addition. Scarecrows and sprinklers, similarly great additions. Things like this are very good to have sprinkled in throughout the progression of a tech era, and we can gate them using more research requirements on tough requests. Here's what I mean by that: How should the normal progression through the game go? Am I going to force you to raid 10 different factions and find 50 different items for you to get the basic research you need to play the game? Probably not. But if you want to get all of the cool things and the bells and whistles and improve the quality of your playthrough, you should have to work for it a little more. So unlocking the smithy? Probably not the hardest thing you'll ever do. It might require a decent amount of steel as a resource, so you have to farm a decent amount and use it in the research process. It might require a couple weapons or a couple pieces of armor or something like that, so you still have to take stuff. You still have to pay attention. But you don't have to go on a massive quest line or conquest and then you unlock it. But later on in the same era you're progressing through, you want to unlock the bellows. The bellows gives you access to the military grade items. Maybe the bellows is the gate to being able to make some of the military stuff or the basic stuff, whatever. Doesn't matter if you want to make a falchion, you need a bellows. How do you get the bellows? Now you're going to have to go on a quest for something or you're going to have to work a little more for something. I'm still leaning light on those production augmentors. So that was actually a bad example, right? Gating core weaponry that you really want as you progress behind a massive quest line is not a good example. We can kind of flip that, but putting requirements on the bellows is a good idea. How tough those requirements are depends, and here's what I'm really thinking here. The scarecrow is awesome! It gives you a 15% or 20% boost to crop growth, right? It's a very worthwhile thing to have, and there is only a couple of those types of things in the game. There's only one medieval crane that increases the production speed of a mine, and that scales through the whole game. And if you want it, you gotta do something for it. You got to go on a quest, you got to find something hard to get. In my thought process here is, let's designate specific items, and so that is the factions that are in the same era as you. When you're in the Neolithic era and the medieval era and beyond, even this applies to the whole game really. Would you want to get one of the rare but extremely useful quality of life add-ons that do not gate the base progression through the game? You've got to go do something to earn that, that is above and beyond what you would normally have to do. Something much less resource cost here. What's the resource cost to research this care? Maybe it's nothing. Maybe you don't even have a resource cost, but you have to go find this one item, which you can only get from raiding another faction successfully or from completing a quest successfully, and that quest is something we can create and manage as we go along. I think that is a very meaningful kind of side quest option as you progress through the game. An additional benefit to this model and something to consider is that you have to research the majority of the tech era you are in before you can progress because of tech blocks. So you might reach a spot where you say, "I have to research this scarecrow because I need to research more things and because I have to research it. I have to go on this quest, and as a reward, I get this awesome thing." 

So that sums up a lot of my thinking of how moving through these eras should look. I didn't go into super specifics about which exact items belong in which tech tier and when you should get them in that tier. That's something that a designated balance pass can go through and say okay, "Where does it make sense for brewing to land? Where does it make sense for candle making to land? Where does it make sense for the different furnitures to land? And what are the research items that are going to require them, right?" That's something that we can balance at the end of the day. But what I am saying here, and this is crucially important, is fuck what the mods say. The mods give us all of the things we need to build on. We can completely change what that looks like as you progress through the game where what research exists, what's bundled in that research, and the requirements for completing it are entirely in our hands. Additionally, there are only a few of those augmenting items in the game today, and so we can steal other things and turn them into augmenting items. For example, the scarecrow vanilla expanded adds that. If we decided, "Hey, we want to have a trough for animals and if you put the trough in the animal pen it reduces the food consumption by twenty percent," we can go find an item in any of the game or these mods which we can repurpose to become that trough, and we can add it as a research item and put it in the game. So we are fully open to repurposing anything that makes sense for what we're trying to accomplish. I've used many examples here of taking the workstations that these mods add and turning them into augmenters for the base production stations. We can simply expand that concept out to what I'm talking about here. 

And then all of the actual items, the weapons, the apparel, the crops you can grow, the recipes you can make—those just become unlockables with these different research items. So when you get the bellows for the smithy, you get a few recipes with the bellows and it unlocks your ability to research other recipes you can make with the bellows. And those recipes don't necessarily have any item requirements, just resource requirements. You want to learn how to make an axe? It costs 50 steel. You got a practice making an axe, right? And maybe it's—what are some of the ones from the game? If I'm looking at basic maces right now, you learn how to make a bludgeon, a golden egg, two-handed mace, and a two-hand mallet from one research node. Maybe that's fine. The bludgeon moves to the research node that comes with the bellows, so when you research the bellows, you learn how to make a malicious spear, a bludgeon, and an axe. If you want to learn how to make the other basic items, you research them in little groups and it costs a resource requirement of X number of steel or X number of wood or whatever to do that. That feels like really good progression to me. That feels like every step is earned, but at the same time is rewarding, and it will slow down the pace of the game naturally, giving you reasons to interact with the game itself, but not punishing you and slowing you down artificially. And that's very, very important. I'm also not overloading you with complexity or making you obey by systems that you're going to have to continue to use all the way into the late game that make no sense. Hopefully this wraps up my entire philosophy around how the progression and the feel of this should work. I hope it's useful. 